---
title: "Fast shortest-path queries on large-scale graphs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper_2016_07
excerpt: '<i>with</i> Xu Zhang, Jin Zhao, Xin Wang and Tilman Wolf'
date: 2016-07-01
venue: 'IEEE 24th International Conference on Network Protocols (ICNP)'
paperurl: 'http://qiongwenxu.github.io/files/qiongwenxu2016.pdf'
---
<i>with</i> Xu Zhang, Jin Zhao, Xin Wang and Tilman Wolf

Shortest-path queries on weighted graphs are an essential operation in computer networks. The performance of such algorithms has become a critical challenge in emerging software-defined networks (SDN), since SDN controllers need to perform a shortest-path query for every flow. Unlike classic solutions (e.g., Dijkstra’s algorithm), high-performance shortestpath query algorithms include two stages: preprocessing and query answering. Despite the improved query answering time, existing two-stage algorithms are still extremely time-consuming in preprocessing large-scale graphs. In this paper, we propose an efficient shortest-path query algorithm, called BBQ, which reduces the running time of both stages via tree decomposition. BBQ constructs a distance oracle in a bottom-top-bottom manner,
which significantly reduces preprocessing time over existing algorithms. In addition, BBQ can answer batch queries in bulk by traversing the decomposed tree instead of executing separate queries. Our experimental results show that BBQ outperforms state-of-the-art approaches by orders of magnitude for the running time of the preprocessing stage. Meanwhile, BBQ also offers remarkable acceleration for answering batches of queries. As a result, SDN controllers that use BBQ can sustain 1.1–27.9 times higher connection request rates.


[Download paper here](http://qiongwenxu.github.io/files/qiongwenxu2016.pdf)