---
title: "Paracon: a parallel control plane for scaling-up path computation in SDN"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper_2017_05
excerpt: '<i>with</i> Kun Qiu, Siyuan Huang, Jin Zhao, Xin Wang, Stefano Secci'
date: 2017-03-01
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management 14 (4), 978-990'
paperurl: 'http://qiongwenxu.github.io/files/qiu2017.pdf'
---
<i>with</i> Kun Qiu, Siyuan Huang, Jin Zhao, Xin Wang, Stefano Secci

The fundamental tasks of the control plane in software defined networking (SDN) are to customize forwarding policies for the data plane and to provide global network view for applications. The logically centralized control plane design brings benefits in terms of network programmability and can largely ease network management. However, it also increases efficiency concerns. One practical control plane challenge is path computation, because it can require a significant amount of computation load if the network scale is large and the path requests from applications are frequent. In this paper, our goal is to build a high-performance control plane for path computation using multiple controllers. Previous works attempt to improve control plane efficiency by balancing only the load for data plane behavior between multiple controllers. Going beyond conventional wisdom, we designed ParaCon, a solution we propose to speed up the control plane by distributing the load of path computation. We also address the consistency and synchronization overhead challenges related to ParaCon design. To the best of our knowledge, ParaCon is the first attempt that utilizes node parallelism in SDN path computation. We evaluated ParaCon using both Mininet and real-world clusters. Our results show that the path computing time of ParaCon can achieve a speedup of 10× over Floyd (used in POX) and Dijkstra (used in ONOS) baseline implementations for networks with hundreds of nodes.

[Download paper here](http://qiongwenxu.github.io/files/qiu2017.pdf)